website/docs: clean up proxy provider docs (#22870)
goauthentik/authentik: website/docs/add-secure-apps/providers/proxy/index.md

---
title: Proxy provider
---

> The proxy provider protects applications that do not support a native authentication protocol such as OIDC, SAML, or LDAP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The proxy provider protects applications that do not support native authentication protocols such as OIDC, SAML, or LDAP.
```

> Depending on the selected mode, either the authentik outpost proxies requests to the upstream application, or your existing reverse proxy handles the application traffic and asks the authentik outpost to check authentication and authorization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on the selected mode, one of the following happens:

1. The authentik outpost proxies requests to the upstream application.
2. Your existing reverse proxy handles the application traffic and asks the authentik outpost to check authentication and authorization.
```

The proxy provider supports the following modes:

| Mode                              | Use when                                                                                                                 |
| --------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Proxy                             | The authentik outpost should proxy traffic to one upstream application.                                                  |
| Forward auth (single application) | Your existing reverse proxy should proxy traffic to one application and use authentik only for authentication checks.    |
| Forward auth (domain level)       | Your existing reverse proxy should use one proxy provider to protect multiple applications under the same parent domain. |

Domain-level forward auth cannot enforce different application-level authorization rules for each protected application. Use single-application mode when each application needs its own policies, bindings, or authorization behavior.

## Headers sent to upstream applications

The proxy outpost sets the following user-specific headers:

> | Header                     | Example value                                                      | Description                                                        |

Reviewer: I love a good table

Author: haha the long list of markdown headers and descriptions drove me drazy

In proxy mode, `X-Forwarded-Host` preserves the original `Host` header sent by the client because the `Host` header is set to the configured upstream host.

### Additional headers

You can set the `additionalHeaders` attribute on groups or users to send additional static headers:

```yaml
additionalHeaders:
    X-test-header: test-value
```

For dynamic headers, see the [custom headers](./custom_headers.md) documentation.

## HTTPS

The outpost listens on port `9000` for HTTP and port `9443` for HTTPS.

:::info
If your upstream host is HTTPS, and you're not using forward auth, you need to access the outpost over HTTPS too.
:::

## Logging out

Login is initiated automatically when you visit the protected application without a valid cookie.

To log out, navigate to `/outpost.goauthentik.io/sign_out` on the host that serves the outpost:

- In proxy mode and forward auth single-application mode, use the protected application host, for example `https://app.company/outpost.goauthentik.io/sign_out`.
- In forward auth domain-level mode, use the authentication URL configured for the provider, for example `https://auth.company/outpost.goauthentik.io/sign_out`.

> Starting with authentik 2023.2, logging out of a provider invalidates all sessions for that user within the respective outpost.

Reviewer: We can probably remove the "Starting with..." since it's so outdated.

Author: ```suggestion
Logging out of a provider invalidates all sessions for that user within the respective outpost.
```
